#  CDN

A CDN (Content Delivery Network) is a highly-distributed platform of servers that 
helps minimize delays in loading web page content by reducing the physical 
distance between the server and the user. This helps users around the world view 
the same high-quality content without slow loading times.


## How does a CDN work?

Over half of the internet’s traffic is served by a content delivery network (CDN). 
The goal of the CDN is to reduce latency – the delay between submitting a 
request for a web page and the web page fully loading on your device – by 
reducing the physical distance that the request has to travel.

CDNs offer an easy way to increase the speed of a website while also lowering the latency. Therefore, they are essential for the fast, efficient and secure delivery of content to users around the world. This content is not simply limited to website content alone; it can also comprise 4K and HD-quality video, audio streams, apps, games and OS updates. With website visitor attention spans growing shorter by the day, it is imperative to deliver this content as quickly as possible.

Without a CDN, content origin servers must respond to every single end user request. This results in significant traffic to the origin and subsequent load, thereby increasing the chances for origin failure if the traffic spikes are exceedingly high or if the load is persistent.

By responding to end user requests in place of the origin and in closer physical and network proximity to the end user, a CDN offloads traffic from content servers and improves the web experience, thus benefiting both the content provider and its end users. The inherent capabilities of a content delivery network mean that CDN providers are uniquely positioned to help businesses overcome these diverse challenges of media delivery.